Hemmings Motor News (HMN) is a monthly magazine catering to traders and collectors of antique, classic, and exotic sports cars. It is the largest and oldest publication of its type in the United States, with sales of 215,000 copies per month, and is best known for its large classified advertising sections. The magazine counts as subscribers and advertisers practically every notable seller and collector of classic cars, including Jay Leno and his Big Dog Garage, and most collector car clubs are included in its directory.
The magazine was started by Ernest Hemmings in Quincy, Illinois, in 1954, then purchased by Terry Ehrich, who moved the operation to Bennington, Vermont in the late 1960s. Ehrich published the magazine until his death in 2002. The company was then acquired by American City Business Journals. Hemmings Motor News currently has 100 employees at its Bennington, Vermont headquarters.Starting in 1970, HMN published Special Interest Autos (SIA), a bimonthly periodical focused primarily on American collectible automobiles. From 2000 to 2003, they published the muscle car and hotrod magazine Hemmings Rods and Performance. In 2003, it  was relaunched as Hemmings Muscle Machines, with muscle cars as its sole focus.
In 2004, shortly after the release of Hemmings Muscle Machines, Hemmings ended publication of SIA and began to develop its successor, Hemmings Classic Car, launched in October of that year. That was followed in 2005 by Hemmings Sports & Exotic Car.
Hemmings Motor News magazine also contains an approximately 80-page section of editorial content. Content includes coverage of collector-car shows and auctions, sports cars, touring cars, classic cars, pre-war cars and historic racing cars, as well as family-type automobiles.
HMN also sells a large line of calendars, clothing, signs, and other items relating to automobile collecting and memorabilia, and maintains a public display of 25 cars at their headquarters.
Hemmings executive editor Richard Lentinello left the company in 2020.